# Links

If you would like to add a link to this page, or there is a dead link which
should be fixed/removed, please use the address given at the bottom of the page
to contact the webmaster and report the change. 

## Articles about Allegro

[Gamasutra] - Allegro Inspires A New Generation of Independent Developers
(26/10/1999).

[GameDev.net] - An Interview With Shawn Hargreaves.

[Linux Today] - Playing the Open Source Game (05/07/1999).
[Here you have the original copy by Shawn]. 

## Competitions

[Allegro Games Competition II] - Allegro Games Competition II.

[The Allegro SpeedHack 1999] - The Allegro SpeedHack 1999.

[The Allegro SizeHack 2000] - The Allegro SizeHack 2000.

[The Allegro DemoHack 2000] - The Allegro DemoHack 2000.

[The Allegro SpeedHack 2001] - The Allegro SpeedHack 2001.

[The Allegro SizeHack3D 2001] - The Allegro SizeHack3d 2001.

[The Allegro Team Competition 2001] - The purpose of the competition is not
only to match the game programming skills of different people, but also to
promote programming in teams, to improve the organisation skills involved. To
make it even more interesting, the rules say that the team must consist of
people from different countries.

[The Pixelate Games Competition 2001] - This time you will have a few months to
write your entry, but will it be good enough?

[IdeaHack 2001] - Never found the appropriate competition due to restrictive
rules? This one is for you: before entering, you submit an idea or requirement
your game will have to follow, and your entry will be scored depending on how
well you meet your own goal.

[The Allegro SpeedHack 2002 A] - The Allegro SpeedHack 2002 A.

[The Allegro SpeedHack 2002 B] - The Allegro SpeedHack 2002 B.

[BlitzHack 2003] - The BlitzHack is a six-hour-long Allegro-focussed game
programming competition, in which entrants strive to make the best game
possible with extremely limited time constraints using a shared backstory as a
theme and basis for the game, a shared media set, and a shared code snippet
set.

[SpeedHack 2003] - The Allegro SpeedHack 2003.

[TINS 2003] - TINS is a speedhack-like competition. The goal is to write a
complete game from scratch in a single weekend, using Allegro of course.

[SpeedHack 2004] - The Allegro SpeedHack 2004.

[SpeedHack 2005] - The Allegro SpeedHack 2005.

## Programming

[C-scene] - Documentation and sources about C/C++ programming.

[Flipcode] - News and resources about game development.

[Linux Game Development Center] - Web site dedicated to video game programming
under Linux.

[Programmer's Heaven] - Contains different sources about game programming.

[Game Programming Resources] - A web page dedicated to game programming
resources. Its contents are in Portuguese.

[Pixelate] - An online game developing magazine started sometime around March
2001 which keeps growing bigger and better with the help of the Allegro
community.

[Game Programming Wiki] - Here you will find game programming tutorials and
source code for a variety of languages and platforms. Also, because this is a
wiki, you are encouraged to contribute your knowledge and help the repository
grow!

[Zingtech Game Development] - Game development site with tutorials, an
introduction to DirectX, a summary of a software engineering internship at
Electronic Arts, and a game idea center. Also a section on Allegro, game
programming books, and community resources. Current projects include Dr. Mario
Online. 

## Libraries

[Mesa] - Mesa is a free implementation (under GPL license) of the OpenGL API.

[OpenGL] - SGI's OpenGL web site.

[SVGAlib] - Linux SuperVGA Graphics Library. Since SVGAlib is quite extended,
Allegro can use it as a driver reaching more people with different hardware.

[Linux Framebuffer] - The Linux Framebuffer is another Allegro driver, which
plays nice and lets Allegro programs run at user level without problems.

[SDL] - The Simple DirectMedia Layer is a C cross-platform multimedia library
which has been used to port many Windows games using DirectX to other
platforms.

[Clanlib] - Clanlib is a C++ development kit covering from low level to high
level stuff. Certainly bigger than Allegro, includes things like scripting or
network support.

[Plib] - A suite of portable game libraries with a C++ interface, oriented
towards 3D games (through OpenGL).

[TinyPTC] - TinyPTC is a cross-platform framebuffer library with a simple API (a
subset of OpenPTC). It features a few output targets such as raw XLib, XShm,
XDbe, XDga 1/2, etc. It also automatically manages colordepth conversions
on-the-fly if such a feature is needed.

[DEPUI, DEGFX, DETK] - DEPUI is a small extremely portable user interface
library. DEGFX is a small extremely portable graphics library. DETK is a small
toolkit library for commonly used functions. The three can be combined and used
under the GPL license. 

## Compilers

[DJGPP] - A DOS port of the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC). It's an excellent
compiler which comes with a big number of tools. It's supported by all Allegro
versions.

[Mingw] - A Windows port of the GNU compiler collection (GCC). It's supported
by the 4.x or newer versions. 

## Misc

[Game developing community network] - Very complete website dedicated to game
programming with Allegro. You can find there programs written with Allegro,
help documentation, and library extensions and various tools.

[Games for Linux] - This is a portal where people are helped to port their
games to Linux. They support all multiplatform libraries, but most games use
Allegro.

[Allegro's webring] - This is Allegro's webring. From here you can get to many
other Allegro related web pages.

[Xuti software] - XuTi software has written a good deal of documents about
Allegro in portuguese, including installation guides, tutorials, and they
provide precompiled Allegro RPMs for Conectiva Linux.

E.T.S.I.Telecommunication at the University of MÃ¡laga, Spain - To motivate the
students during their first year programming C/C++, they are taught to write
simple games with Allegro, like Simon or Minesweeper. The students also take
part in a competition and the results are quite good.

Allegro development group at the University of Pereira, Colombia - During 2001
a conference about Allegro planted the seed. Now an Allegro development group
is active and producing documentation in Spanish for students at the University
of Pereira, Colombia. They also have an Allegro related support mailing list
and make meetings from time to time.

FreeBE/AF - This is a low level driver interface for accessing graphics
hardware, which can be used by Allegro. It provides all the same features as
VESA 3.0 and adds the ability to use 2D hardware acceleration in an efficient
and portable manner, meaning drivers can work under DOS and Linux depending on
how they are written.

The Graphic File Formats Page - A good repository of file formats. 2D bitmap
specifications, 3D geometry and animation specifications, utils, infos,
resources, FAQs...

Wotsit's format - This site contains file format information on hundreds of
different file types and all sorts of other useful programming information:
algorithms, source code, specifications, etc.

[The Allegro wiki](http://awiki.tomasu.org/bin/view) - A collaborative wiki
hosted by Thomas Fjellstrom. 

Allegro's Web Ring
Ring's Home
Next Site
Previous Site
Random Site
Skip Next Site
List Next 5

DJGPP's Web Ring
Ring's Home
Next Site
Previous Site
Random Site
Skip Next Site
List Next 5
